#crypt
Simple functions, using Node's crypto library, to encrypt and decrypt blocks of text. 

Storing passwords in plain-text is not a good idea. crypt makes the storing of passwords easy. The crypt functions can be used for encrypting passwords for storage and also decryption of stored passwords for later validation. 

crypt provides functions to generate a 'pass phrase' that can be used with the text or password to be encrypted. This pass phrase is then used to later validate the plain text password against the encrypted password. 

The encrypted text and pass phrase are not combined and therefore can either be combined later for storage or stored seperately for increased security.

Using Node's Advanced Encryption System AES256 symetrical algorithm for encryption and an option to use SHA256 for hashing the pass phrase, crypt offer a strong cryptographic solution for password handling.

crypt only depends on Node's crypto library and has no other dependancies. UnitJS is used for testing but is not required to use crypt.

__This is a work in progress and a stable release is not yet available.__
###Installation
crypt is not yet in the npm archives therefore download the zip file from GitHub and '*extract all*' into a folder.

Alternatively clone from git using command:
```
git clone https://github.com/kelvin-martin/crypt.git
```

This will install all the source files from the GitHub repo and setup a local git repo.

###API
A stable release is not yet available and changes to the API __will occur__.

Currently the API operates synchronously. There is an open issue to add support for asynchronous operation. This is unlikely to occur until after the first stable release.
```
randomPassPhrase (length)
```
Returns a random binary encoded hexadecimal string that can be used as a pass phrase for __*encrypt()*__. The returned pass phrase string of 'length'x2 being generated from 'length' randomly generated bytes.The optional length parameter defines the length of the pass phrase. The default value for length is 128. If length is used it should between 32 and 1024. __*randomPassPhrase()*__ limits length to be between 32 and 1024 inclusive.

Because of Nodes crypto functions a new pass phase should be used for every encrypt operation. This pass phrase should be saved so that the plain text can be regenerated usng __*decrypt()*__. If the pass phrase is lost there is no way of regenerating the oringinal text.
```
hashPassPhrase (text)
```
Returns a hash digest string using the supplied text that can be used as a pass phrase. The binary encoded hexadecimal hash digest returned has a length of 64 being generated using SHA256. If no text is supplied then __*randomPassPhrase()*__ is used to generate the input text for the hash.
```
encrypt (text, passPhrase)
```
Encrypts a block of text (__*string*__) using the supplied pass phrase (__*string*__) and returns a cypher (__*string*__) of the text. If an error occurs a null object is returned. Therefore, the return value sould always be tested for null.

The current implementation uses Node's Advanced Encryption System AES256 algorithm. If a different pass phrase is used for every encrypt() operation then the cryptography should be secure. If a global pass phrase is used then it is possible to perform successful attacks on multiple generated cyphers which have used the same pass phrase.
```
decrypt (text, passPhrase)
```
Decrypts a block of previously encrypted text (__*string*__) using the supplied pass phrase (__*string*__) and returns a plain text (__*string*__) decryption. If an error occurs a null object is returned. Therefore, the return value sould always be tested for null. If a different pass phrase is used then the function will return null.
```
verify (text, encrypted, passPhrase)
```
Helper function that verifies the supplied text is the same as the encrypted text using the supplied pass phrase. Returns true (__*bool*__) if the the text is validated else returns false (__*bool*__). Returns false if any of the parameters are missing or the pass phrase was not used to encrypt the original text.
###License
Crypt is freely distributable under the terms of the MIT license.